### URDF Previewer

Open the package in the VS code and type Ctrl+Shift+X to go to the Marketplace and install the ROS extension. 
In order to use the ROS extension, first, go to a .urdf file (or .urdf.xacro file, either works), click on it, and then press Ctrl+Shift+P to be able to search for the extension usage.
As you type in ROS, the option ROS: Preview URDF will show up. Make sure to click on that option.
Once that option is clicked, you should be able to see what the model will look like. An example is shown below.


https://hiro-group.ronc.one/vscode_urdf_previewer.html#:~:text=urdf%20file%20(or%20.,search%20for%20the%20extension%20usage.&text=As%20you%20type%20in%20ROS,Preview%20URDF%20will%20show%20up.

https://github.com/gkjohnson/vscode-urdf-preview

### Gazebo server on Cloud

If your gazebo world is big and complex then you can run gazebo server on cloud or on other system.
When running gazebo server on Linux server, there will be an issue that camera's image topic won’t be getting published. Other things like dynamics, laser sensor, ultrasonic, bumper etc. will work properly. In order to solve we have to install virtual xservers like Xvfb. Then in the AWS terminal where you are about to run gazebo server just type 

```bash
Xvfb :1 -screen 0 1600x1200x16 &
export DISPLAY=:1.0
```

then launch the gazebo server launch file
https://answers.gazebosim.org//question/14625/running-a-camera-sensor-headless/


### Linux commands to simplify ros2

* To find the specific name in ros2 command output

```bash
ros2 topic list | grep scan
ros2 topic list | grep left
ros2 topic list | grep cmd_vel
ros2 node list | grep control
ros2 node list | grep robot_1
ros2 node list | grep -v robot_1
```
*grep -v robot_1* to get ros2 node list which doesn't contain string robot_1

* To search the previously executed ros2 commands

```bash
history
history | grep ros2
history | grep ros2 | grep turtlebot
```

* To give alias to frequent used commands

save the below commands in .bashrc in user home folder
```bash
alias ros2tb="source /opt/ros/humble/setup.bash && export TURTLEBOT3_MODEL=waffle && export GAZEBO_MODEL_PATH=$GAZEBO_MODEL_PATH:/opt/ros/humble/share/turtlebot3_gazebo/models && ros2 launch nav2_bringup tb3_simulation_launch.py headless:=False"
alias sshu="ssh user_name@192.168.4.55"
```

* To kill a ros2 node

example, if we want to kill talker node 

```bash
ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker
ps a | grep -v grep | grep talker
```

*grep -v grep* to exclude the process generated by running the above command
most probably, there will be 2 PID. kill both

find the PID and kill it

```bash
kill -9 pid_value
```

